GIA typically consist of a gravitational, a rotational and a deformational response, which motivates the use of GRD as a commonly used alternative accronym. FastIsostasy ignores the rotational response but approximates the gravitational one. The deformational response can be represented by a wide variety of models. The most sophisticated one is able to represent the laterally-variable mantle viscosity and lithospheric thickness. It is described in [swierczek2024fastisostasy](@citet) and is mainly adressed to ice-sheet modellers who seek for a good representation of solid-Earth mechanics at virtually zero computational cost. The simple interface of FastIsostasy allows to flexibly solve GIA problems within a few lines of code. The code is distributed under GNU general public license v3 and was succesfully benchmarked against analytical, 1D GIA and 3D GIA model solutions.

Based on the work of [cathles-viscosity-1975](@citet) and [lingle-numerical-1985](@citet), an efficient way of solving for the vertical displacement was proposed by [bueler-fast-2007](@citet). FastIsostasy generalises this approach by relying on a hybrid Fourier/finite-difference collocation. Thanks to a simplification of the full problem from 3D to 2D space and the use of [optimized software packages](@ref Juliaecosystem), running kiloyears of regional GIA with $$\Delta x = \Delta y = 45 \, \mathrm{km}$$ is a matter of seconds on a single CPU. For high resolution runs, the user can switch to GPU usage with minimal syntax change and enjoy the advantage of parallelization without requiring an HPC cluster. For GIA "purists", this package is likely to miss interesting processes but we belive that its ridiculous run-time can help to fast-prototype a problem before transfering it to a more comprehensive model.